+++
title = "Wordle Problem"
date = 2025-11-30

[taxonomies]
tags = ["networking", "pihole"]
+++

Wordle no longer works on my phone. Not just wordle, either. Connections no
longer loads. I can open the NYT app, get through the splash screen and see all
the game options, but when I select wordle or connections, it hangs trying to
load the game.

{{ image(src="/wordle_problems/connection_fails.png",
         alt="Connections failing to connect!",
         style="width: 25%;") }}

Weirdly, the mini crosswords works. All of these games also work on the browser.
I can also get them to work by running my
[vpn](https://www.mozilla.org/en-US/products/vpn/). App appears to be
up-to-date. Works on cell signal. Just appears to be local wifi and only the
iPhone.

It just seems like too big a coincidence that this started happening after I
messed with my network config for the blog. I'm struggling to figure out how to
troubleshoot this. I can start with disabling ad-block on the
[pihole](https://pi-hole.net/), I suppose. Every once in a while some app will
gate behind some nonsense shit domain.

Uh oh, disabling ad blocking and it appears that the games are back.
Fortunately, the pihole interface gives some decent tools for figuring out what
exactly is getting hosed here.

First thing first, let's make sure we can cause the issue again by re-enabling
blocking and disconnecting and reconnecting to the wifi (to hopefully flush any
DNS caching local to the phone?). Sure enough, connections hangs, and look at
that in the pihole logs. A NYT ad domain: a.et.nytimes.com. Let's unblock that
temporarily and see if the games work.

{{ image(src="/wordle_problems/pihole_nyt_ads.png",
         alt="New York Times ads",
         style="width: 100%;") }}

I am actually shocked; that did not resolve the issue. I _still_ suspect that
this is going to be an ad thing, so let's keep looking at these domains. They
usual suspects are here: doubleclick, datadog, etc. Unfortunately, as I
whitelist these domains one-by-one, the list explodes with additional domains.
These fucking ad servers are a nightmare just pulling in all kinds of junk.

I'd just like to take a moment to say that I _pay_ for NYT and their games. This
is the kind of bullshit that makes me absolutely want to never pay for anything
on the web ever.

Anyhow, after whitelisting **30** domains, we're in. Now to reverse the process
and start blacklisting to see which actually triggers the issue.

{{ image(src="/wordle_problems/pihole_whitelist.png",
         alt="New York Times ads",
         style="width: 100%;") }}

Alright, I found the min set of domains that need to be whitelisted to get this
to work and it includes both amazon and google ad servers? If I disable any one
of these, then the games no longer load. I suspect that it's one domain pulling
in another pulling in another, and so on.

{{ image(src="/wordle_problems/pihole_final_whitelist.png",
         alt="New York Times ads",
         style="width: 100%;") }}

I'm going to re-disable all of these because fuck em. NYT needs to unfuck their
iPhone app.
