+++
title = "Passthrough"
date = 2025-11-26

[taxonomies]
tags = ["networking"]
+++

Working through getting my home network ready for getting put online. There are
two options here, either doing cascaded routers or passthrough. I did a quick
search to see what the differences are. [This
site](https://lightyear.ai/tips/cascaded-router-versus-ip-passthrough) lists
some of the similarities and differences, and gives some advice on which to
choose. It seems like "cascaded router" would be ideal if I had static IP
addresses. This would let me isolate the public facing stuff into its own
network pretty easily. However, I don't have that (fuck AT&T), and using
passthrough will serve my purposes sufficiently.

The setup on the AT&T router wasn't _difficult_ per se, but it did require
undoing some things I had done previously. Mainly, I needed to remove the static
IP allocation I had for my second router and then just enable IP passthrough. A
quick reboot of the second router and it now has my public IP address on the WAN
side. I was a little concerned that I wouldn't be able to access my AT&T router
anymore due to the new setup, but it still seems to be responding at the
172.x.x.x address.

I'll need to double check my firewall settings on the second router now that
it's technically public facing.

Next up is figuring out how to hook up my router to the dynamic DNS service of
Cloudflare. It seems to support a few services out of the box, but Cloudflare
isn't one of them.

Aaand I'm giving up on that. I'll just run a script to do it manually.
Cloudflare has a perl based one suggested to do it.
